Extended status assertion errors table added (#53)
peppelinux/draft-demarco-oauth-status-attestations: draft-demarco-oauth-status-attestations.md

code set to 200 and the `status_assertion_responses` array with the related
Status Assertion Error object.

Below a non-normative example of a Status Assertion Error object in JWT format, with the headers and payload represented in JSON format and without applying the signature.

~~~
{

>     "alg": "ES256",
>     "typ": "status-assertion-error+jwt"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "status-assertion-error+jwt",
    "kid": "Issuer-JWK-KID"
```

code set to 200 and the `status_assertion_responses` array with the related
Status Assertion Error object.

> A non-normative example is given below
> where the format is JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below a non-normative example of a Status Assertion Error object in JWT format, with the headers and payload represented in JSON format and without applying the signature.
```

> Below a non-normative example of a Status Assertion Error object in JWT format, with the headers and payload represented in JSON format and without applying the signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below a non-normative example of a Status Assertion Error object in JWT format, with the headers and payload represented in JSON and without applying the signature.
```

~~~
{
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "status-assertion-error+jwt"
}
.
{
    "iss": "https://issuer.example.org",
    "jti": "6f204f7e-e453-4dfd-814e-9d155319408c"
    "credential_hash": $CREDENTIAL-HASH,
    "credential_hash_alg": "sha-256",
    "error": "credential_revoked",

>     "error_description": "Credential has been replaced."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "error_description": "Credential is revoked"
```

    }
}
~~~

The Status Assertion Error object must contain the parameters described in the
table below:

| Header | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **typ** | REQUIRED. Depending on the related Status Assertion Request object format, it MUST be set to `status-attestation-error+jwt` or `status-attestation-error+cwt`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |

> | **alg** | REQUIRED. It MUST set to `none`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **alg** | REQUIRED. For the Status Assertion Error that do not need to be signed the `alg` value MUST set be to `none`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |
```

> | **alg** | REQUIRED. For the Status Assertion Error that do not need to be signed the `alg` value MUST set be to `none`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **alg** | REQUIRED. For the Status Assertion Error that do not need to be signed the `alg` value MUST be set to `none`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |
```

| Payload | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **iss** | REQUIRED. It MUST be set to the identifier of the Issuer. | {{RFC9126}}, {{RFC7519}} |
| **jti** | REQUIRED. Unique identifier for the JWT.  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |

> | **credential_hash** | REQUIRED. Hash value of the Digital Credential the Status Attestation is bound to, according to the related Status Assertion Request object. | this specification |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **credential_hash** | REQUIRED. The hash value MUST match the one contained in the Status Assertion Request to which the Status Assertion Error is related. | this specification |
```

> | **credential_hash_alg** |  REQUIRED. The Algorithm used of hashing the Digital Credential to which the Status Attestation is bound. The value SHOULD be set to `sha-256`. | this specification |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **credential_hash_alg** |  REQUIRED. The hash algorithm MUST match the one contained in the Status Assertion Request to which the Status Assertion Error is related. | this specification |
```

> | **error** | REQUIRED. The value SHOULD be assigned one of the error types as specified in the {{RFC6749}} [Section 5.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-5.2) or the others as defined in table below  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **error** | REQUIRED. The value SHOULD be assigned with one of the error types defined in {{RFC6749}}[Section 5.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-5.2) or defined in the Section [Status Assertion Error Values](status-assertion-error-values).  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |
```

| **error_description** | OPTIONAL. Text in human-readable form that offers more details to clarify the nature of the error encountered (for instance, changes in some attributes, reasons for revocation, other).  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Status Assertion Error Values

```

The `error` parameter for the Status Assertion Error object MUST be set with one of the values defined in the table below, in addition to the values specified in {{RFC6749}}:

| Error Parameter Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | **credential_revoked** | The Digital Credential is revoked. The reason of revocation SHOULD be provided in the error_description field. | this specification |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **credential_revoked** | The Digital Credential results as already revoked. The reason of revocation MAY be provided in the `error_description` field. | this specification |
```

> | **credential_updated** | One or more attributes contained in the Digital Credential are changed. The error_description field SHOULD contain a human-readable text describing the general parameters updated without specifying each one. | this specification |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **credential_updated** | One or more information contained in the Digital Credential are changed. The `error_description` field SHOULD contain a human-readable text describing the general parameters updated without specifying each one. | this specification |
```

this seems to be overlapping with `credential_revoked` since if the credential was updated it should be therefore revoked

> | **credential_invalid** | The Digital Credential is invalid. The error_description field SHOULD contain the reason of invalidation. | this specification |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **credential_invalid** | The Digital Credential is invalid. The `error_description` field SHOULD contain the reason of invalidation. | this specification |
```

| **invalid_signature** | The Digital Credential has an unknown key. The error_description field SHOULD contain the reason of signature invalidation. | this specification |

> | **credential_not_found** | The Digital Credential is not found for hashing issues for instead. The error_description field SHOULD contain the reason of invalidation. | this specification |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **credential_not_found** | The `credential_hash` value provided in the Status Assertion Request doesn't match with any active Digital Credential. | this specification |
```

> | **unsupported_hash_alg** | The Digital Credential uses a hash algorithm not supported. The error_description field SHOULD contain the reason of issue. | this specification |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **unsupported_hash_alg** | The hash algorithm set in `credential_hash_alg` is not supported. | this specification |
```

code set to 200 and the `status_assertion_responses` array with the related
Status Assertion Error object.

Below a non-normative example of a Status Assertion Error object in JWT format, with the headers and payload represented in JSON and without applying the signature.

~~~
{
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "status-assertion-error+jwt",
    "kid": "Issuer-JWK-KID"
}
.
{
    "iss": "https://issuer.example.org",
    "jti": "6f204f7e-e453-4dfd-814e-9d155319408c"
    "credential_hash": $CREDENTIAL-HASH,
    "credential_hash_alg": "sha-256",
    "error": "credential_revoked",

>     "error_description": "Credential is revoked."

Reviewer: please do a proposal, I would like to have draft 03 before the next interim meeting

I used status code set to 200 for two reasons:

1. the result is an array with multiple embedded responses, be these assertions or errors
2. adversaries won't take any behavioral information from the endpoint without inspecting the JWT/CWT contained in the response array

I want to know from you if you want a different approach or if you only want remove this error type about the already revoked credential

    }
}
~~~

The Status Assertion Error object must contain the parameters described in the
table below:

| Header | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **typ** | REQUIRED. Depending on the related Status Assertion Request object format, it MUST be set to `status-assertion-error+jwt` or `status-assertion-error+cwt`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |

> | **alg** | REQUIRED. For the Status Assertion Error that do not need to be signed the `alg` value MUST be set to `none`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **alg** | REQUIRED. For the Status Assertion Error that do not need to be signed the `alg` value SHOULD be set to `none`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |
```

> | **alg** | REQUIRED. For the Status Assertion Error that do not need to be signed the `alg` value MUST be set to `none`. | {{RFC7516}} Section 4.1.1 |

Reviewer 2: : (

MUST use alg none ....

Reviewer: There may be situations where an adversary may send hundreds of fake status assertion request objects forcing the issuer to sign hundreds of Status Assertion Errors.

this would consume computational resources and in some cases, depending by the implementation and deployment of the issuer, may cause a resource exhaustion attack

I would change it from MUST to SHOULD if this relaxes our concerns @OR13

| Payload | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **iss** | REQUIRED. It MUST be set to the identifier of the Issuer. | {{RFC9126}}, {{RFC7519}} |
| **jti** | REQUIRED. Unique identifier for the JWT.  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |
| **credential_hash** | REQUIRED. The hash value MUST match the one contained in the Status Assertion Request to which the Status Assertion Error is related. | this specification |
| **credential_hash_alg** |  REQUIRED. The hash algorithm MUST match the one contained in the Status Assertion Request to which the Status Assertion Error is related. | this specification |
| **error** | REQUIRED. The value SHOULD be assigned with one of the error types defined in {{RFC6749}}[Section 5.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-5.2) or defined in the Section [Status Assertion Error Values](status-assertion-error-values).  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |
| **error_description** | OPTIONAL. Text that clarifies the nature of the error, such as attribute changes, revocation reasons, in relation to the `error` value.  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Rationale About The Unsigned Status Assertion Errors 

To mitigate potential resource exhaustion attacks where an adversary could issue hundreds of fake status assertion requests to force an Issuer to sign numerous Status Assertion Errors, it is advisable to set the header parameter`alg` value to `none` for Status Assertion Errors that do not require signatures. This approach conserves computational resources and prevents abuse, especially in scenarios where the Issuer's implementation could be vulnerable to  resource exhaustion attack. However, even if it is out of the scopes of this specification determine in which  in cases the Status Error Assertion signatures are necessary, when the Issuer signs the Status Assertion Errors the Client that received them MUST validate the signature.
```

> | **error_description** | OPTIONAL. Text in human-readable form that offers more details to clarify the nature of the error encountered (for instance, changes in some attributes, reasons for revocation, other).  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **error_description** | OPTIONAL. Text that clarifies the nature of the error, such as attribute changes, revocation reasons, in relation to the `error` value.  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |
```

| Payload | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **iss** | REQUIRED. It MUST be set to the identifier of the Issuer. | {{RFC9126}}, {{RFC7519}} |
| **jti** | REQUIRED. Unique identifier for the JWT.  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |
| **credential_hash** | REQUIRED. The hash value MUST match the one contained in the Status Assertion Request to which the Status Assertion Error is related. | this specification |
| **credential_hash_alg** |  REQUIRED. The hash algorithm MUST match the one contained in the Status Assertion Request to which the Status Assertion Error is related. | this specification |
| **error** | REQUIRED. The value SHOULD be assigned with one of the error types defined in {{RFC6749}}[Section 5.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-5.2) or defined in the Section [Status Assertion Error Values](status-assertion-error-values). | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |
| **error_description** | OPTIONAL. Text that clarifies the nature of the error, such as attribute changes, revocation reasons, in relation to the `error` value.  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |

## Rationale About The Unsigned Status Assertion Errors 

> To mitigate potential resource exhaustion attacks where an adversary could issue hundreds of fake status assertion requests to force an Issuer to sign numerous Status Assertion Errors, it is advisable to set the header parameter`alg` value to `none` for Status Assertion Errors that do not require signatures. This approach conserves computational resources and prevents abuse, especially in scenarios where the Issuer's implementation could be vulnerable to  resource exhaustion attack. However, even if it is out of the scopes of this specification determine in which  in cases the Status Error Assertion signatures are necessary, when the Issuer signs the Status Assertion Errors the Client that received them MUST validate the signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mitigate potential resource exhaustion attacks where an adversary could issue hundreds of fake Status Assertion Requests to force an Issuer to sign numerous Status Assertion Errors, it is advisable to set the header parameter`alg` value to `none` for Status Assertion Errors that do not require signatures. This approach conserves computational resources and prevents abuse, especially in scenarios where the Issuer's implementation could be vulnerable to  resource exhaustion attack. However, even if it is out of the scopes of this specification determine in which  in cases the Status Error Assertion signatures are necessary, when the Issuer signs the Status Assertion Errors the Client that received them MUST validate the signature.
```

| **error** | The value SHOULD be assigned one of the error types as specified in the {{RFC6749}} [Section 5.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-5.2) or the others as defined in table below  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |
| **error_description** | Text in human-readable form that offers more details to clarify the nature of the error encountered (for instance, changes in some attributes, reasons for revocation, other).  | {{RFC7519}} Section 4.1.7 |

> The `error` parameter values provided in {{RFC6749}} SHOULD be included and the following values MUST be supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `error` parameter for the Status Assertion Error object MUST be set with one of the values defined in the table below, in addition to the values specified in {{RFC6749}}:
```

> The Status Assertion Error object data schema is inspired by the errors defined in {{RFC6749}}; errors parameter values defined in {{RFC6749}} and the following error codes MUST be supported:

Author: ```suggestion
The `error` parameter values provided in {{RFC6749}} SHOULD BE included and the following values MUST be supported:
```

| Error Parameter Value | Description | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **credential_revoked** | The Digital Credential is revoked. The reason of revocation MUST be provided in the error_description field. | this specification |
| **credential_updated** | One or more attributes contained in the Digital Credential are changed. The error_description field MUST contain a human-readable text describing the general parameters updated without specifying each one. | this specification |
| **credential_invalid** | The Digital Credential is invalid. The error_description field MUST contain the reason of invalidation. | this specification |

> 

Author: TODO: add example here of a status assertion error object

with

iss
iat
credential_hash
error
error_description

where all the claims are required but error_description.

-02

> * Name of the draft changed from `OAuth Status Attestations` to `OAuth Status Assertions`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Name of the draft changed from `OAuth Status Attestations` to `OAuth Status Assertions`.
```

> * Exdended Status Assertion errors table added in [the section Status Error](#status-assertion-error)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Exdended Status Assertion errors table added in [the section Status Error](#status-assertion-error).
```
